Let's keep moving forward with our character here.
I think the next thing we should do is maybe work on the arms.
All we really need to do here is select a couple of faces and extrude these out.
Now if I extruded this out the way it is now and hit the e key and extruded out we only get it on one
side so we kind of went the other side to come along for the ride as we model.
So I'm going to undo out of this with control over command Z and what I'd like to do is just delete
one half and then set up the mirror modifier So the model will stay symmetrical as we model.
So to do that I'm just going to maximize this screen here the front for you by pressing control up arrow
and that'll maximize that view.
I'll hit the Z key for wireframe and I'll hit the big key for border select and I'll just click and
drag and let's get these selected here then press X to delete and choose faces.
And there we go.
So now we've got half of the character deleted.
I'm going to press control up arrow again to come back to my two window view.
I'm going to tab out of edit mode.
Hit the Z to go into solid shading.
And now I'm going to come over here to the Properties window and I'm going to choose this little wrench
here and this is the modifiers panel I'll click add modifier and the LIT's choose mirror.
And there we go.
Now I usually also choose clipping here that will ensure that any points along the center line of the
model will get snapped to each other and merge together.
All right so I'll hit the tab key to go back into edit mode.
I can turn this little guy on this adjust edit cage and see the faces on the other side as well.
All right.
So let's go ahead and work on the arms.
I'm going to select these two faces and hit the e key and I'm going to immediately click and then just
press g for move and just move these out.
I'm going to use the scale tool to flatten these up the press the s key and scale that down a bit.
Now I'll come in here and kind of work on these I'll select these two points and just scale them in
a bit.
No I won't because I've still got individual origins selected I'm going to change this to median point
again and then I should be able to scale these.
And again I'll just move these out to kind of shape the arm a bit
Go to face mode and hit each for extrude and I'll just come straight out.
Something like this.
I think I will have these more relaxed and down.
Let me move these down as well.
Rotate them a bit.
So I'm just trying to shape the arms a bit.
So they're in more of a relaxed pose.
I'm just using both the front and the side view to see how I'm doing here.
Now I think we need to insert some edge loops up here around the shoulder so let's go ahead and do that
while press control r and insert and then loop up here.
And I'll scale them to kind of fit their
Let's take a look at the head here.
I'm going to select these points and just begin moving them out a bit.
So they're not quite so blocky
something like this.
In addition I think I'd like to work on this piece right down here.
Now there's an edge loop that's going to flow down around the front here around the crotch and also
back here along the back.
And I'd like to go ahead and get those set up before I move any farther.
So the way to do that is I'm going to insert an edge loop right along here and that will of course inserted
in its loop on the other side as well.
And I want to insert an edge loop across here and bring it down.
Something like that.
And the whole purpose of this is to get this edge to flow down around like this.
What I want to do first is actually cut an edge from here to here and then delete these two.
So I just going to hit the cakey for the knife tool and click here and then click here and hit enter
or return.
Then I'm going to take this edge and dissolve it and then I'm going to take this edge and dissolve it
by pressing the x key and then going to dissolve edges.
And now you can see I've got this flow coming around here and that edge flow will help us as we sculpt
the transition between the hips and the legs.
All right.
Well now that I've got that let's spin around on the back side and get that.
Now this is the front view and I pressed the one key to get here I can also press control one key and
I'll spin around to get the other side.
So now I can press the KCI and knife this side but I'm not getting a little highlighted points here
that tells me I can cut.
The problem is this is the mirrored side if I come over here there.
That looks a little better so I'll cut here.
And then here.
And hit enter.
And now I go back to edge mode and dissolve this edge with the x key and press X here as well and dissolve
edges.
So there we've got that edge flow going around.
Now I need to dissolve these edges along the side and these edges down beneath.
So I'll just press on it and click this edge and then choose X and dissolve.
Now we go and now down here on the bottom I'll go back to the default view and let's tumble down here
and I need to get rid of these as well so I'll press alt and click those X and dissolve edges.
Now we go now I have to give credit to Scott Spencer for this particular method of doing things.
He is a digital sculptor extraordinaire and his book digital sculpting is great.
So you got to take a look at that if you are interested in really going into detail into sculpting human
forms.
All right so with that let me spin around here again and hit the one key.
Know we go.
We're getting there now.
This line of edges is really tight and close together here.
In addition we need an extra edge loop down the center of the legs.
So what I'm to do is I'll go ahead and press control are in insert and loop here because we're going
to need that.
But also I need to come through and begin moving these out a bit so I'm going to take this and just
begin pulling these out to kind of spaced these out a little better.
For these up here I'll use the slide edge tool if you press control.
You get a menu for edges if you press control f you get a menu for faces and if you press control V
you get a menu for vertices.
So for edges or press control E and go to Ed slide down here and now I can just drag the mouse and it'll
slide that edge along that existing plane will do the same thing over here.
All right we're coming along.
We've still got work to do on the arms and of course the hands and we're going to begin inserting some
edge loops and doing things like pulling these points around the side of the character to get them a
little bit more rounded out like that.
But ultimately it's looking pretty good.
I do need to be sure and keep the base mesh a little smaller than the reference drawing.
To give myself a little room to sculpt because when I sculpt I'm going to want to add forms and pull
things out to create the shape of the body rather than cutting in.
So this base mesh really needs to be smaller or skinnier than the actual character so that we can add
forms instead of taking away.
So in the next video we'll keep going and we'll try and finish off the base mesh so we can finally start
sculpting.